# Pirate_Chain_Case_Study
# A Case Study about the most Anonymous Cryptocurrency

## Pirate Chain, ticker=(ARRR), is a cryptocurrency project with a primary goal of being the most private and secure digital currency. Pirate Chain aims to protect the financial privacy of each of its users. Pirate Chain has come a long way as it was originated in a discord group.

* Pirate Chain 

* The project was launched in 2018 by a group of developers from the Komodo Network. Komodo is an open source blockchain platform and cryptocurrency that also strives to be secure and private.

* Pirate Chain began as a concept for a 100% zk-SNARKs coin. Bitcoin paved the way for financial freedom for the average person. But Bitcoin has flaws in the regards of financial freedom. It intended to be a secure, anonymous and efficient medium of exchange but it hasnt been able to live up to these needs. This has sparked an influx of projects and companies who are creating cryptocurrencies and technologies that solve these flaws. The developers of Pirate Chain were already working to bring true financial freedom to the world at Komodo, which gave them the perfect background and experience for having the idea of a cryptocurrency like Pirate Chain and being able to implement it.
* Pirate Chain is funded in a few different ways. They run a couple Komodo Notary Nodes that donate funds every month, as well as having there main pools donate a portion of the pool fees to them. They profit by using these funds toward development, community bounties, etc. They also raise community funds to help pay for things like exchange listings which in turn brings profits to the project. It is not clear how much funding Pirate Chain has recieved.


## Business Activities:

* Pirate Chain is trying to solve the problem of lack of privacy and traceablitly. For example, Bitcoin is traceable. If someone sends you Bitcoin that came from a criminal source, and the authorities know about it, you can be linked to that transaction. With Pirate, this cannot happen. People might be worried that this is only going to promote criminal behavior, but technology is a double edged sword and privacy is a basic human right. Therfore financial privacy is too, and it should not be kept from everyone just to keep it away from criminals.

* Pirate Chain's intended customer is anyone who wants a fungible, deflationary, private, quick and secure currency that can be used to protect and store wealth or engage in markets and trade. The market size for this particular customer is expected to grow substantially in the future as things like hacking, scams, or more goverment over reach on basic human rights become more prevalent. Also as the demand for digital payment solutions increase.

Competitors of Pirate Chain include projects like ZCash and Monero. ZCash does not shield all of their P2P transactions, which ruins fungibility and their privacy. Zcash also utilizes transparent addresses and those transactions make up 98% of their chain. Though ZCash uses zk-SNARKs, They are not fully private. Aside from initial block rewards to pools, all of Pirate's transactions are private. They also have a bigger anonymity set and use Delayed Proof of Work (dPoW). Monero offers a private chain, but does not use zk-SNARKs. Soo zk-SNARKs combined with a fully sheilded chain gives Pirate users better privacy, a bigger anonymity set, and makes them 51% attack resistent with dPoW. This solves privacy issues that no other crypto project can offer currently, which gives Pirate Chain great advantages to its competitors.

Here are the technologies Pirate Chain uses and how they are implemented.
# The following Definiton and explanation in quotes is cited from https://pirate.black/about-pirate-chain/
 "Many cryptocurrencies offer optional privacy features, however, (ARRR) is the first cryptocurrency to implement a mandatory, private-only usage of Zero Knowledge-Succinct Non-interactive Argument of Knowledge (zk-SNARKS). Zk-SNARKs is a zero knowledge proof protocol that allows one party to prove to another that a statement is true, without revealing any information beyond the validity of the statement itself. These proofs are also “succinct” and can be verified within a few milliseconds. Zk-SNARKs is widely accepted across the industry as the strongest privacy protocol"
They also use the consesus algorithm dPoW "Delayed Proof of Work"
# The following definiton in qoutes is from https://tokens-economy.gitbook.io/consensus/)
 "dPoW is a hybrid consensus method that allows one blockchain to take advantage of the security provided through the hashing power of a secondary blockchain. This is achieved through a group of notary nodes that add data from the first blockchain onto the second, which would then require both blockchains to be compromised to undermine the security of the first."  
Both of these technologies are implemented by default. So Pirate Chain is private by default. 
# The following explanation in quotes is cited from https://pirate.black/about-pirate-chain/
"Pirate employs a Proof-of-Work algorithm for blockchain security. As an added security against 51% double-spend attacks, Pirate utilizes the delayed Proof of Work algorithm offered by Komodo. Delayed Proof of Work indexes Pirate’s blockchain onto Komodo’s and Litecoin’s blockchain. In so doing, any attempts to attack Pirate’s blockchain will first need to overcome both these blockchains, which is prohibitively costly and virtually impossible"
# The following definiton and explanation in quotes is cited from https://pirate.black/about-pirate-chain/
"Another unique feature of Pirate Chain is the anonymity set. Pirate was designed to use virtually every transaction to build the anonymity set. This all-inclusive approach creates an infinitely growing, impregnable anonymity set."  The anonymity set can be followed “live” here": https://anonset.dexstats.info/


## Landscape:

* Pirate Chain is in the Cryptocurrency/blockchain domain

* Some of the major trends in this domain over the last 5-10 years include adoption. There has been mass adoption not only from retail investors, but from institutions as well. This has caused a massive influx of money to flow into the space which has brought even more attention to it, bringing about innovations like major exchanges offering the trade of cryptocurrencies and new exchanges starting up. All the while making it easier for users to buy, sell, and store cryptocurrency. Not only can your average person access crypto from a smartphone now, but you can go to a physical bitcoin atm and buy crypto. More and more people are being exposed to the oppurtunity of finacial freedom and being given more financial choice because of the innovations and trends in this domain.

* Some other major companies and projects in this domain are: Binance, Kucoin, Coinbase, Monero, Ripple, Komodo, Qortal, Status.


## Results

* Despite being a fairly new project, Pirate Chain and the Pirate Chain community has already had a great impact on business. First off, if you invested in Pirate Chain in its early days and sold near the peaks of its last market cycle. You would have seen returns of well over 100,000%. Even today in the bear market you would still be in profit. Second, one might ask what use is (ARRR) and its technologies if I cant actually buy day to day goods with it or use it for payments? Well, members of the team have already begun creating platforms to be able to purchase real goods and services from around the world using (ARRR). One of them being ARRRmada. ARRRmada is a website and ecosystem of all the businesses and organisations that accept (ARRR). It is a directory of retailers and service providers that have ARRR as a form of payment. Users can now actually buy and sell with (ARRR) as if it were the dollar, without the worry of problems like inflation or comprising you and your family's privacy. Another platform like ARRRmada is bARRRter, created by one of the community members bARRRter is a platform and community where you can buy and sell legal goods.  Its very easy to use and also affordable with a base lifetime membership of $10. The affordability helps it spread throughout the world by being more accessible to lower income communites. The more people that are buying and selling, the better the economy becomes. Especially when using a medium of exchange like (ARRR) rather than fiat currencies. Because when the FIAT system is collapsed by design and the total surveillance control of a Central Bank Digital Currency is rolled out, your average person will be unable to purchase certain goods and services without adhering to the behavioural expectations of the State. You already can see this unfolding in places like China with there Social Credit System. Like I mentioned earlier, technology is a double edged sword and I believe financial technologies like Pirate Chain will have an exponentially great and positive impact on freedom and business.

* Some of the core metrics that companies and projects use to measure success in this domain are: Market capitalization, trade volume, price, users, exchange listings, news and articles, community conversation etc. As I mentioned earlier, Pirate Chain is still a fairly new project soo it doesnt have near as many users, or a big of a market cap than say Monero. Though Pirate Chain has better technology than Monero, it is not as widely trusted or used because it doesnt have a history like Monero. Being around longer and used by more people gives you a sort of track record of reliability and proof that this project actually does what it claims to do. Because of this, Pirate Chains market cap and 24 hour trade volume is still very low.But this will increase with time and exposure. Especially as there becomes a higher demand for privacy coins due to things like goverment overreach, hackers, and scams becoming more prevalent. But, Pirate Chains success can still very much be seen with its all time high of $16.90. We are down nearly 98% from that today but this shows the exposure (ARRR) has already had on investors. (ARRR) has also been listed on major exchanges like KuCoin, Gate.io, and CoinEx. Exchange listings are one of the biggest ways cryptocurrency projects, and companies can guage there success. More exchange listings, means more exposure and more trust from the community as they trust the major exchanges. Another major way crypto projects and companies gauge there success is by how much of the community is talking about them, are they appearing in social media threads, youtube videos, or articles from renowned companies like The Motley Fool or CNBC Business. In August of 2021 (ARRR) was featured on The Motley Fool as one of the to 3 Altcoins to buy in September. (ARRR) has also been talked about on major youtube channels like BitBoy Crypto. Despite having a low marekt cap, low 24 hour volume and the price being down nearly 98%, all of these metrics measure great success for Pirate Chain thusfar. I believe this project is truly a sleeping giant and will play a major role in making the world a better and more free place.

* How is your company performing relative to competitors in the same domain? Within the crypto currency domain, Pirate Chain is in the sector of privacy. Its perfomance relative to other projects is a bit slow when referring to user base, growth, and market cap. Projects in the domain like Monero, Dero, Zcash, qortal or other non privacy cryptos that may just aim to hedge against inflation, become green with there energy usage or just be quick at transactions etc. Are much more widely known have more money invested into them.  But, many of these non-privacy coins are what some may call "Surveilance Coins" soo even though they have massive user bases, market caps, more adoption and recogniton. They are still compromising one the most basic human rights, privacy. Soo performace as far as the things I mentioned is much lower than many competitors in the domain, but as far as technological performance, and diligence from the team, Pirate Chain is far outperforming there competitors and adoption and recognition will only follow with the teams success in there technologies and ability to stay consistent with work on the project. 


## Recommendations

* As of now, Pirate Chain only offers 4 different kinds of software wallets. A full node wallet, mobile wallet, lite wallet and a paper wallet which is an offline wallet. These are all great, but I would recomend the team offers a hardware wallet. That would be about the only thing that could make (ARRR) more secure and private. 

* Skeptics of cryptocurrency and the safety and security of crypto wallets could trust holding (ARRR) even more with the development of a hardware wallet. Your keys will never be online and you could have something tangible to hold and store your crypto with. You cannot hold ARRR on existing trusted hardware wallets like Ledger. Soo if the team were to offer a hardware wallet produced by them and not some secondary source, people could really trust they are getting a legitimate product. Which in turn would grow (ARRR's) user base and trust. They could also take profits from the sale of Pirate Chain
hardware wallets and put it back into the project by gaining more exchange listings, improving platforms like ARRRmada and bARRRter, and overall improving the project by offering more user friendly ways to interact with (ARRR).

* The technologies for a hardware wallet are fairly simple. Its a tangible device similar to a USB drive that stores your cryptocurrency in offline storage also known as "cold" storage. They are not connected to the interenet. Soo your crypto transactions are digitally signed within the device using your private key, then securely uploaded to the blockchain using a crypto bridge. Hardware wallets can manage multiple different blockchains that can easily be backed up with a seed phrase, also known as a recovery phase. This is the most important technology of the hardware wallet because you could lose your wallet but not lose your crypto. Youd be able to recover your crypto from almost any device with your recovery phrase. Your cryptos are actually never stored within the hardware wallet itself, but rather on the blockchain. The hardware wallet just stores your private key which opens the lock to your cryptos that are on the blockchain. Soo your private key is safe from online attackers. Between the offline key, seed phrase, and your tangible cold storage device, you have a simple yet very secure way to store your crypto.

* These technologies would coincide very well with Pirate Chain because its an extra layer of privacy technology, on top of what technology Pirate already has. Not only are your transactions and wallet contents invisible using zk-SNARKs, but now your private key is invisible and innaccessible from the internet.

# Below are sources mentioned and used in writing this Case Study: 
https://medium.com/
https://pirate.black/
https://barrrter.com/
https://ldapwiki.com/
https://arrrmada.com/
https://crunchbase.com/
https://cryptonews.com/
